# miun-web3-mom4-rest

## Available URIs
* `https://web3mom5rest.eliaseriksson.eu/courses/`
  * Supported methods:
    * GET 
    * POST
    * OPTIONS
    * HEAD
* `https://web3mom5rest.eliaseriksson.eu/courses/<courseCode>/` \
  * `courseCode` is a 1-6 character combination of letters and numbers.
  * Supported request methods:
    * GET
    * PUT
    * PATCH
    * DELETE
    * HEAD
    * OPTIONS
  
  
## Running with django development server
The development server is not intended for production use. Instead a proper web server should be used.
This application is hosted at https://miun.eliaseriksson.eu/ with NGINX + uWSGI but apache2 + mod_wsgi is another option.
1. Clone this repository with `git clone https://github.com/EliasEriksson/miun-web3-mom4-rest`.
2. navigate into the repository with `cd miun-web3-mom4-rest`.
3. Create a virtual environment with `python3 -m venv venv` (windows: `python -m venv venv`).
4. Activate the virtual environment with `source venv/bin/activate` (windows (cmd): `venv/Scripts/activate.bat`).
5. Install dependencies with `python -m pip install -r requirements.txt`.
6. Navigate to django root with `cd rest_root`.
7. Generate a django secret key 
`python -c "from django.core.management.utils import get_random_secret_key as gen;print(gen())"`.
8. Add the file `rest_root/rest/credentials.json` with the the following content but with your database credentials 
   and your generated django secret key.
   ```json
   {
       "database": {
           "NAME": "you database name",
           "USER": "you database user",
           "PASSWORD": "your database users password",
           "HOST": "your database host address",
           "PORT": "3306"
       },
       "secret_key": "your django secret key"
   }
   ```
9. Change the DEBUG setting from `False` to `True` in `rest_root/rest/settings.py`.
10. From within `rest_root/` create new migrations with `python manage.py makemigrations`.
11. Apply the migrations with `python manage.py migrate`.
12. Run the development server with `python manage.py runserver`

## These parts of the project does not have comments.
Some of the files in this project is autogenerated by django when using the command line interface
`python -m django ...` and `python manage.py ...` if the files have not been modified by me they are not commented.
### What does the autogenerated files do?
* Files under `migrations/` are files created by django when making changing to the models and those changes 
are to be applied to the database.
* The `wsgi.py` / `asgi.py` is the file that is used to interface with uWSGI (or mod_wsgi)
and uWSGI then interfaces with nginx (and mod_wsgi interfaces with apache). `asgi.py` is not used in this project.
* `apps.py` is used for configuration for the specific django application.
* `__init__.py` tells python the directory is a python module.

## Request to response
When a request comes in django will use the `rest/urls.py` to match with the request url. If a user requests with 
`example.com/courses/` the `rest/urls.py` will start matching and in this example it will go to `courses/urls.py`.
A `urls.py` will typically include another `urls.py` or call a function from a `views.py`.